There is a false dichotomy to many people in open source, that open source projects should not be making money or bringing in revenue. Not bringing in revenue or not receiving funding of any sort is one of the worst things for an open source project. Most Open Source projects have very few full-time developers or maintainers, so most maintainers make a living through other occupations. Making money and Open Source are not mutually exclusive. A project can still be open source and bring in revenue, the idea of open source and revenue are not incompatible. In fact, funding is almost necessary if the project is to be able to maintain steady releases and build a community of committers. The incentive for maintainers to continue to release high-quality commits for a project that is not sustainable is not very high, most committers work full time as a developer and have other priorities.

Another reason why projects need funding is that projects must avoid the tragedy of the commons. The tragedy of the commons is a well-observed occurrence in economics with respect to public goods. The general idea is that users of a public good are exploited and depleted of resources (1). As Travis Oliphant points out in his Keynote Speech at PyData 2019: The Business of Open Source, “the grass is the open source developers and the sheep are the users of open source who are just using it and not helping maintain it... not providing support for the open source developers, then pretty soon we have these wilted and dead open source developers.” In this analogy the comparison to a public good is rather clear. Many users and corporations use open source projects without ever giving back financially to a project.

Without revenue coming in most projects will fail. The most valuable resource is time, and if committers are not incentivized some way to contribute time to a project then the project can lose priority and relevance to the contributor because it does not contribute financially to their living. 

SOURCES: 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCEUPosJuIY
